
# TWDS 2024 Mentorship Program

Welcome to my TWDS 2024 Mentorship Program repository. Here, I document my data analysis journey, sharing analyses, learnings, and insights gained. This space is designed for reflection, collaboration, and community engagement as I navigate through the program.

## Project Structure

The repository is organized into several directories, each serving a specific purpose:
- `docker/`: This directory holds Dockerfiles and related configurations for creating Docker containers. 

- `docs/`: This directory contains analysis reports generated by this project.

- `notebooks/`: Jupyter notebooks for exploratory data analysis, model development, visualization, and results presentation are stored here. These notebooks serve as the primary medium for sharing knowledge and findings.

- `storage/`: This directory is intended for storing datasets, both raw and processed, that are used throughout the project.

- `utils/`: Contains utility scripts and modules that provide support functions for data processing, analysis, and other repetitive tasks.

- `Makefile`: A Makefile is included to automate common tasks such as setting up the environment, running tests, and cleaning up temporary files.

- `README.md`: The file you are currently reading. It provides an overview of the project, including its structure and instructions on how to get started.

## Getting Started

To kick off your journey with this project, the first step involves cloning the repository to your local machine:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:fafnerzhang/twds_2024_memtorship.git
```

After cloning, you have two options to set up your development environment:

### Option 1: Manual Setup

If you prefer to manage your environment directly:

1. **Navigate to the project directory:**

```bash
cd twds_2024_memtorship
```

2. **Install the required dependencies:**

```bash
pip install -r docker/requirements.txt
```

This installs all necessary Python packages as specified in `docker/requirements.txt`. Ensure you are using `python 3.11` for this step to avoid any compatibility issues.


### Option 2: Using Docker

For a consistent development environment across all machines:

1. **Ensure Docker is installed and running on your machine.**

If not, download and install Docker from the [official Docker website](https://www.docker.com/get-started).

2. **Build and start the development container:**

```bash
make dev
```

This command builds a Docker container as specified in the `docker/Dockerfile` and starts it, mounting the current project directory inside the container. This setup provides a consistent and isolated environment for development.


## Usage
Before diving into the notebooks, ensure you have downloaded the analysis data and placed it in the `storage/raw/` directory.

After setting up the project, you can begin exploring the notebooks in the `notebooks/` directory. These notebooks are designed to guide you through various data science concepts and techniques.

To run a Jupyter notebook:

1. Activate your Python environment if you are using one.
2. Start Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab:

```bash
jupyter notebook
```

or

```bash
jupyter lab
```

3. Navigate to the `notebooks/` directory and open a notebook of your choice.

## Contact

For any questions or concerns regarding the project, please contact the project maintainers:

- Fafner Zhang - [GitHub](https://github.com/fafnerzhang)
